Reviewer: 1

Comments to the Author
1) The manuscript describes a novel approach to processing and interpretation of the mass-spectrometric data of glycans. The article is well written and presents results valuable for glycoinformaticians.
However, the manuscript takes 10 pages, which is twice more than recommended for "Original article" in Bioinformatics. Authors should consider rewriting it in a shorter way.

Although the article focuses at the algorithm, a brief description of the software in which this algorithm was implemented, would be very useful for chemists and biologists. And a pack of web-services providing the functionality of GlycReSoft would be even better.

2) (comments for minor, but significant revisions):

The structural limitations of glycans that can be analyzed by the proposed method should be stated more clear in the Introduction ("typical N-glycans of Eukaryotes").

section 2.1
page 2, line 46: Please add a reference for the source of biosynthetic rules summarized in Table 1. Authors should discuss applicability of these rules.
If the table refers only to N-glycans it should be reflected in its name.
I looked through a few databases and found many Eukaryotic N-glycans that do not match these rules. As an example, glycosciences.de returns two dozens of mammalian N-glycans that have a glycolyl-neuraminic acid residue, which is missing from the table.
line 49: I tried to retrieve all N-glycan compositions from GlyTouCan to reproduce the number 275, but I discovered that it was not a straightforward procedure, as I could not find the interface feature to aggregate N-glycan motif search results by composition. The procedure of data extraction from other databases should be documented in SI and referenced in the main text.
line 49: how does a set of 1240 compositions intersect with the sets of 319 and 275 compositions?
line 51: if the smaller sets were not subsets of a bigger set, why have you applied sulfate inclusion to 1240 generated compositions but not to compositions from the other databases as well?

section 2.2
please add details:
What was a background to select these exact samples?
What is the proof that they cover the diversity of samples, which the users of your algorithm may face (especially taking into account that most of samples came from a single publication)?
What is the proof that the number (and kind) of samples is statistically sufficient for testing purposes?
It would be convenient to have a column with a taxonomic assignment of samples.

section 2.4
page 3, line 39: it is unclear which glycan database you mean.
line 40: what was the background for these magic numbers 10 ppm and 5 ppm?

section 2.5
It would be good to gather all feature-specific treshold values in a separate table in SI.
SI section 1.6: how did you obtain the thresholds for the summarized score (8 and 15) and how have you validated their confidence?

section 2.6
section 2.6.1: how is it validated that L1-distance reflects the "biochemical distance" between glycans, i.e. differences in their moleclar behaviour. For example, are two random non-equal monosaccharides always non-equal in the same extent or there are some pairs of monosaccharides that are closer each to other (e.g. Hex and HexNAc or Neu5Ac and Neu5Gc).
page 5, line 1: orphaned line at the end of the last paragraph in section 2.6.2.
Table 3: It should be said explicitly that neighborhoods include all theoretical compositions that match the bounds, but not only those of them that were derived from real glycans which you extracted from databases for side-by-side comparison. For this purpose it would be good to add a column with the number of compositions in each neighborhood.

Fig 2, Table 4, Fig. 4, Table 6 and related text: All abbreaviations and axes labels should be explained.

I have not tested the software because I could not download it from the URL provided in the abstract (timeout error).


Reviewer: 2

Comments to the Author
Klein et al's manuscript entitled 'Application of Network Smoothing to Glycan LC-MS Profiling' describes a new approach for assigning glycan compositions to LC-MS data. The methods described include the extension of previously published work in the field and the incorporation of well established glycan models and databases.

Overall, the manuscript is well written and the authors have clearly described the approaches used. Also, the authors have documented the algorithms design extensively with suitable use of supplementary materials, and have demonstrated it use and accuracy with experimental data generated by the group. This work adds considerable value to the field. Additionally, the code is open and well documented for the community to use.

I do have a few questions, mostly to help guide the reader.

1. The authors need to justify the use of the Laplacian regularization method and briefly mention other (suitable) methods available. Also, a clear description of this method is recommended in section 2.6.3. This doesn't need to be lengthy but recommended to help engage non-computational readers.

2. In Table 3 this reviewer is a bit confused with the monosaccharide ranges. For bi-antennary the HexNAc range is bounded [3,5]. Based on the assumption that the chitobiose core HexNAc2 Hex3 is present  the min. HexNAc will be 4 and a max of 5 if a bisecting GlcNAc is present.  Its not clear why is 3 is included in this range and is with in the bounded range. Can the authors clarify - this is a problem with most entires in this table.

3. It is interesting that that the authors do not mention the benefits for using LC in characterising complex glycan samples. Others have reported that LC can seperate glycan isomers (of the same composition) which aids assignments. It appears that rules of glycan separation, dependent on column chemistry, is not discussed and its potential to help LC-MS data analysis.



Reviewer: 3

Comments to the Author
The authors developed a new scoring function for glycans, combined LC-MS features with glycan features, and evaluated its performance. Because glycan is complex and has heterogeneity in living cells, it is important to develop a high-throughput and accurate assignment tool for LC-MS data. They showed one of solutions for that. However, they evaluated their method using three different databases, but they didn't compare with other algorithms e.g. they mentioned in Introduction.

Major points:
The authors should compare their algorithm with other algorithms.
The authors evaluated their method using three databases, but I didn't find a description of GlySpace dataset. What is this?

Minor points:
p3-39 What is features? I found them in Supplement Table 1, so it should be refer.
p3-52 "Any observation for which any metric was observed below a feature specific threshold was discarded as having insufficient evidence for consideration." appeared in the main text, but "This feature has no minimum value threshold below which chromatograms are discarded." described in the Supplement 1.2.
p4-15 Composition of NeuAc in Asialo-Bi-Antennary is right? I think it is [0,0], but not [0,1] .
In Supplement 1.6 Summarization Score, why Addiction frequency score is absent?